.TH SMFC 1 smfc\-5.4.0
.SH NAME
.B smfc
\- Supermicro fan control for Linux (home) servers.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smfc
[options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B smfc
is a systemd service written in Python for temperature-based fan control via IPMI on Supermicro X10\-X13/H10\-H13
(and some X9) motherboards. It can be executed as a systemd service or as a standalone command.
.PP
For more details see:
.IP
https://github.com/petersulyok/smfc

.SH FEATURES
.TP
.B Fan controllers
Five independent controllers: CPU, HD (SATA/SAS), NVMe, GPU, and CONST (constant level).
Each can be enabled/disabled and assigned to one or more IPMI zones freely.
.TP
.B Temperature sources
Intel/AMD CPUs (coretemp/k10temp), SATA/SAS disks (drivetemp/smartctl),
NVMe SSDs (hwmon), Nvidia GPUs (nvidia\-smi), AMD GPUs (rocm\-smi).
.TP
.B Control logic
Configurable temperature\-to\-fan\-level mapping with discrete steps, sensitivity threshold,
polling interval, and optional moving average smoothing.
.TP
.B Shared IPMI zones
Multiple controllers can share the same IPMI zone; the highest requested fan level wins.
.TP
.B Safety
All fans are restored to 100% speed on service exit.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h, --help
show this help message and exit

.TP
.B -c CONFIG_FILE
configuration file (default is
.I /etc/smfc/smfc.conf
)

.TP
.B -v, --version
show program's version number and exit

.TP
.B -l {0,1,2,3,4}
set log level: 0-NONE, 1-ERROR(default), 2-CONFIG, 3-INFO, 4-DEBUG

.TP
.B -o {0,1,2}
set log output: 0-stdout, 1-stderr, 2-syslog(default)

.TP
.B -nd
no dependency checking at start

.TP
.B -s
use sudo command

.TP
.B -ne
no fan speed recovery at exit

.SH FILES
.TP
.I
/etc/smfc/sfmc.conf

.TP
.I
/etc/default/smfc

.TP
.I
/etc/systemd/system/smfc.service

.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
normal exit

.TP
.B 2
invalid parameter (argument parser)

.TP
.B 5
log system initialization error

.TP
.B 6
config file error

.TP
.B 7
runtime dependency error

.TP
.B 8
IPMI initialization error

.TP
.B 9
udev initialization error

.TP
.B 10
none of the fan controllers are enabled

.SH COPYRIGHT
.B smfc
is Copyright (C) 2020-2026 by Peter Sulyok
