.TH SMFC\-CLIENT 1 smfc\-6.0.0
.SH NAME
.B smfc\-client
\- display the current state of fans and temperature sensors managed by smfc.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smfc\-client
[options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B smfc-client
displays the current state of the fans and temperature sensors managed by
.BR smfc (1).
Run it to see at a glance what your fan controllers are doing \(em what
temperatures they see, what fan levels they have set, and whether the BMC
is operating in the expected mode.
.PP
Use it after installing or reconfiguring
.B smfc
to verify that the controllers are behaving as expected, or whenever you
want a quick status summary without digging into logs.
.PP
.B smfc-client
operates in two ways:
.RB *
When the
.B smfc
service is running and the HTTP exporter is enabled, it fetches a live
snapshot from the service \(em no special permissions needed.
.RB *
When the service is not available (or with the
.B \-sa
flag), it reads sensors directly from the hardware using
.BR ipmitool (1)
and
.BR smartctl (8).
In this mode it may require root or
.BR sudo (8)
privileges.
.PP
The output is structured in four main sections:
.IP \(bu 2
.B Banner
\(em program name, version, config path, and data source.
.IP \(bu 2
.B BMC
\(em product name and current IPMI fan mode.
.IP \(bu 2
.B Fan controllers
\(em a summary table with one row per enabled controller showing section
name, type, IPMI zone(s), device count, aggregated temperature, and
current fan level.
.IP \(bu 2
.B IPMI zones
\(em live fan level per zone.
.PP
By default (non-verbose mode), the tool shows only these high-level
sections. Add the
.B \-V
(verbose) flag to expand each controller into a detailed block showing
its temperature-to-level curve, per-device temperatures, extended BMC
information, and (for SATA arrays) HD standby guard status.
.PP
Temperature and level cells are color-coded when printed to a terminal
(suppressed with
.BR \-nc ).
.B DIM
(below floor),
.B GREEN
(working in range),
.B YELLOW
(upper 30% of window), and
.B RED
(at or above ceiling) make it easy to spot problems at a glance."
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show a help message and exit.
.TP
.BI \-c " FILE" ", \-\-config " FILE
Configuration file (default:
.IR /etc/smfc/smfc.conf ).
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-sudo
Run
.BR ipmitool (1)
and
.BR smartctl (8)
under
.BR sudo (8).
Required when the invoking user lacks direct BMC or disk access.
.TP
.B \-nc, \-\-no\-color
Disable ANSI color output even when stdout is a terminal.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-verbose
Show extended output: additional BMC fields, per\-controller blocks with per\-device temperature
rows, HD standby guard state, and service uptime (online mode only).
.TP
.B \-sa, \-\-standalone
Bypass the smfc service and read sensors directly via
.BR ipmitool (1)
and
.BR smartctl (8),
even when the service is reachable.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show the program version and exit.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/smfc/smfc.conf
Default configuration file.
.SH EXIT CODES
.TP
.B 0
Successful exit.
.TP
.B 6
Configuration file error (missing, unreadable, or invalid).
.TP
.B 8
IPMI initialization error (ipmitool not found or BMC not accessible).
.TP
.B 9
udev initialization error.
.SH NOTES
The standalone mode contacts the BMC directly and may require root privileges or
.BR sudo (8)
(\c
.BR \-s ).
.PP
The IPMI BMC initialization timeout in standalone mode is 5 seconds (shorter than the 120 seconds
used by the smfc service), so the tool returns quickly when the BMC is unreachable.
.PP
CONST controllers (fixed fan level, no temperature source) are shown in the Fan controllers table
but are excluded from the per\-controller verbose blocks.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR smfc (1),
.BR ipmitool (1),
.BR smartctl (8),
.BR systemctl (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
.B smfc\-client
is Copyright (C) 2020-2026 by Peter Sulyok
